.Dd August 13, 2020
.Dt FETCH_CONDOR_SLOTS 1
.Os \" Current operating system.
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm fetch_condor_slots
.Nd get the current slot configuration of the local HTCondor pool
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
reads the condor_status of the local systems HTCondor pool to get all slots and their configuration. The slots are assigned to their
parental node and then stored in a JSON file without any duplicates of nodes or slots of a node.
It also converts storage and memory size to GiB and defines an additional slot\[hy]type "gpu".
.Pp
The fetched condor_status values are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.
.It Name
The name of the slot (e.g. slotX@nodeY.domainZ.com).
.
.It SlotType
The type of the slot (static, dynamic or partitionable).
.
.It TotalSlotCpus
The amount of cpu cores for this slot.
.
.It TotalSlotDisk
The amount of disk space for this slot.
.
.It TotalSlotGPUs
The amount of gpus for this slot.
.
.It TotalSlotMemory
The amount of memory space for this slot.
.
.It TotalSlots
The total available number of slots on the parental node.
.
.It UtsnameNodename
The name of the slot's parental node.
.El
.
.Sh CONFIG
furthermore all these variables/settings can be extended with other values of the condor_status by changing
the projection parameter in content = htcondor.Collector().query(htcondor.AdTypes.Startd, projection=[])
For more info use condor_status -long to see the full slot configuration including all parameters or see
the HTCondor documentation at
.Lk https://htcondor.readthedocs.io/en/latest/man\[hy]pages/
.

.Sh SEE ALSO
The
.Nm
repository is available at
.Lk https://github.com/psyinfra/HTCrystalBall .
Bug reports, patches, and (constructive) input are always welcome.
.
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm
was created by
.An Jona Marcus Fischer
.Mt j.fischer@fz\[hy]juelich.de .
See the AUTHORS file for more information.
.
.Sh COPYRIGHT
.Nm
is released under the
.Qq ISC License .
See the LICENSE file for more information.
