.Dd February 9, 2021
.Dt HTCRYSTALBALL 1
.Os \" Current operating system.
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm htcrystalball
.Nd calculate the runtime and maximum number of jobs that can run on an HTCondor pool
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl h
|
.Fl Fl cpu Ar num
.Fl Fl ram Ar size
.Op Fl g Ar num
.Op Fl d Ar size
.Op Fl j Ar num
.Op Fl t Ar time
.Op Fl m Ar num
.Op Fl f Ar path
.Op Fl v
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
calculates how many jobs
.Pq of a user\[hy]specified number and size
can run on an HTCondor pool.
It also can estimate runtime
.Pq core hours and wall time
and node\[hy]specific matching
.Pq aiding those with node\[hy]level licensing restrictions .
.Pp
The arguments are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.
.It Fl c | Fl Fl cpu Ar number
The number of CPU cores per job.
.
.It Fl r | Fl Fl ram Ar size
The amount of RAM per job, including a unit
.Pq e.g. 10G .
.
.It OPTIONS
.
.It Fl h | Fl Fl help
Prints a summary of
.Nm Ap s
command\[hy]line options and exits.
.
.It Fl g | Fl Fl gpu Ar number
The number of GPUs per job.
.
.It Fl d | Fl Fl disk Ar size
The disk space per job, including a unit
.Pq e.g. 50G .
.
.It Fl j | Fl Fl jobs Ar number
The number of jobs to be executed.
.
.It Fl t | Fl Fl time Ar time
The estimated time for one job to be executed, including unit
.Pq e.g. 1h .
.
.It Fl m | Fl Fl maxnodes Ar number
The maximum number of nodes jobs can be executed on.
Sometimes necessary due to software license restrictions.
.
.It Fl f | Fl Fl file Ar path
The path to a condor submit-file for parsing resource requests.
.
.It Fl v | Fl Fl verbose
Prints a table listing each node, its resources, and proposed usage.
.El
.
.Sh Units
.Ss Storage
Valid storage units are
.Pq case insensitive :
.Bl -tag -width 4n -offset 4n
.It Ar K
kilobytes
.Pq or Ar KB , KiB
.It Ar M
megabytes
.Pq or Ar MB , MiB
.It Ar G
gigabytes
.Pq or Ar GB , GiB
.It Ar T
terabytes
.Pq or Ar TB , TiB
.It Ar P
petabytes
.Pq or Ar PB , PiB
.El
.
.Ss Time
Valid time units are
.Pq case insensitive :
.Bl -tag -width 4n -offset 4n
.It Ar d
days
.It Ar h
hours
.It Ar m
minutes
.It Ar s
seconds
.El
.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Basic output:
.Dl htcrystalball \-\-cpu 1 \-\-ram 7500M \-\-jobs 1
.
Verbose:
.Dl htcrystalball \-\-cpu 1 \-\-ram 7500M \-\-jobs 1 \-\-verbose
.
Big job with runtime projection:
.Dl htcb \-\-cpu 16 \-\-ram 16G \-\-disk 100G \-\-jobs 20 \-\-time 5h
.
Limit to a maximum number of nodes:
.Dl htcb \-\-cpu 16 \-\-ram 16G \-\-disk 100G \-\-maxnodes 2 \-\-jobs 20 \-\-time 5h
.
GPU job:
.Dl htcb \-\-cpu 1 \-\-gpu 1 \-\-ram 8G \-\-disk 64G \-\-jobs 10 \-\-time 2h
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
The
.Nm
repository is available at
.Lk https://github.com/psyinfra/HTCrystalBall .
Bug reports, patches, and constructive input are always welcome.
.
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm
was created by
.An Jona Marcus Fischer
.Mt j.fischer@fz\[hy]juelich.de .
.
.Sh COPYRIGHT
.Nm
is released under the
.Qq ISC License .
See the LICENSE file for more information.
